Major upgrade 1 (#797)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/mina-protocol/index.mdx

---
title: Mina Protocol
sidebar_label: Overview
hide_title: true
description: This section describes how the Mina Protocol works
keywords:
  - mina protocol
  - block producers
  - block
  - snark workers
  - scan state
  - hard forks
  - time locked accounts
  - sending a payment
  - lifecycle of a payment
---

# Introduction

The Mina Protocol is a layer one protocol designed to deliver on the original promise of blockchain, true decentralization, scale and security. 

Mina offers an elegant solution: replacing the blockchain with an easily verifiable, consistent-sized cryptographic proof. Mina dramatically reduces the amount of data each user needs to download. Instead of verifying the entire chain from the beginning of time, participants fully verify the network and transactions using recursive zero knowledge proofs (or zk-SNARKs). Nodes can then store the small proof, as opposed to the entire chain. Because it’s a consistent size, Mina stays accessible even as it scales to many users and accumulates years of transaction data.

## The Mina Protocol 

> Currently there are three public Mina Protocol networks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three public Mina Protocol networks:
```

Reviewer: I suggest omitting the "currently" since all docs are current. 

> Write [timeless documentation](https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation) that avoids words and phrases that anchor the documentation to a point in time or assume knowledge of prior or future products and features. Words to avoid: now, new, soon, not yet, latest, future, and currently.

Author: This may change .. please make a suggestion that implies this if you are unhappy with the word "Currently"

Reviewer: @halsaphi when it changes, the docs change, right?

1. Mainnet - the production network
2. Devnet - the test network based on the same software versions as the mainnet

> 3. Berkley Test Network - a development network, where new features are trialed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Berkley Test Network - a development network where new features are trialed
```

Reviewer: question @halsaphi  is "Berk
```suggestion
3. Berkeley Testnet - a development network where new features are trialed
```

> 3. Berkley Test Network - a development network, where new features are trialed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Berkeley Testnet - a development network, where new features are trialed
```

question @halsaphi  has the name of Berkeley changed? The docs style guide articulates "Berkeley Testnet" as the official network name. 

Watch spelling of Berkeley throughout

> In this section we describe how the Mina Protocol works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how the Mina Protocol works.
```

Reviewer: @halsaphi  
[Use second person](https://developers.google.com/style/person): "you" rather than "we."
